Just to kinda show,
I will use this half done asynchronous
function to just talk about some
of the edge cases are on async.
We'll kind of live code for
a second instead of going into that
whole exercise cuz we're here.
So in this case, right, it does modify.
Even though it's technically
an asynchronous function,
this line does run synchronously,
it's mostly the return value.
Splice, what does splice
give me these days?
It will give me, let's see.
Let's actually just have it return,
The number four just to make my point.
Cool, and so if I say const,
Return value, And in this case,
we'll say, cool, expect that.
And then also expect,
That its return value,
To be 4.
This one will break cuz we've got
a promise which hasn't resolved yet
because we run this code, that returns
a promise that hasn't resolved.
Next tick of the event loop, it will
finally resolve and we'll have it cuz
there's no network call, it's just
a promise, it's a job execute technically.
And so this is now the promise which is,
the promise is not 4.
I have a few different ways
that I can deal with this and
we'll talk about some of
the differences between them.
One, the most common one, Is,
I can just await it and then we'll pause
right there, we'll do other stuff.
We'll pause, we'll wait for it.
Now, return value is in fact 4 and
my test passes, cool.
The other thing that we can do is,
I can say that this promise
resolves to be 4, right?
Really, the time that I
would choose to use this,
I probably just await it most of the time,
where I would choose to use this
is not necessarily resolves to,
but cuz resolved await works just fine,
its cousin,
reject, is the more interesting one,
right?
Because in an async await function,
this will throw an error.
And there are ways to check to see
if something throws an error, but
then trying to catch it and
make the expectation, but if you didn't
make the expectation cuz you didn't catch
the error, then the test passes, right?
That's when I would choose
to purposely say, hey,
this promise should reject to
be this error, this value.
Usually with the unhappy path is
where I'll use resolves and rejects.
For resolves,
I'll usually just use async await, but
trying to do a try-catch in your test,
that's a lot of logic.
All of a sudden you never wanna get your
test to get to the point where we have so
much abstraction, you're so
clever that you need tests for your tests.
All right, like cue an Xzibit meme,
right now I heard you like tests so
I put tests in your tests, right,
you don't want that in your life.
So a lot of times being overly simple and
repeating yourself versus being clever,
cuz if you get too abstract,
who tests the tests, right?
So yeah, the only time I would use that
one really is if it does in fact throw.
And there's an asynchronous folder
in here that we might visit,
which will kind of show
you some of this as well.
You can expect it to be,
you can reject it in this case.
This one will throw.
Or I'll just reject it, but
you can actually see that
it does the thing you want.
Also if you throw inside a promise
that technically rejects it, so on and
so forth.
But most of the time,
I would just await it.
And the nice part is you
saw when I didn't await it,
there was expected 4, received promise.
Pretty clear what the issue was, right?
Not particularly versus callbacks
where you were just kinda bewildered.
[LAUGH] I don't know why it's undefined.
Cuz I didn't put done somewhere in
there or something along those lines.
So the modern era is great.
JavaScript is wonderful,
everything is good.
>> Earlier,
you mentioned comparing objects where we
only cared about a few of the fields.
I think we kinda went over this, but
how would you go about testing to identify
an object based on incomplete
information or just a few fields?
>> So, yeah, the question was basically,
if I only care about a few properties
of an object, let's say I've got
some objects that I work with which
are gigantic, and maybe I only care
about the type field on it or
something, or does it have these two or
three properties, and I don't care
about the rest of the ceremony.
And then I find myself bringing in
these giant JSON representations
of what I'm expecting only to
see two fields that change.
You have two options, and it really
depends on what you're going for.
One of them is super simple,
it's called toMatchObject and
might as well also talk
about its sibling to match,
which works with strings and regexs,
which will make sure that it's.
So if you don't actually
care about the casing,
you could do a case insensitive regex.
That's usually really helpful for
a lot of things,
particularly when we're
doing component testing.
But to answer your question,
we've got toMatchObject,
which basically takes a subset of that and
checks to see if that subset.
So here if you look at the example in
here, we have the John invoice where
the customer in there has
got all of the details, and
then John details is also that
roughly the same object, right?
So you can see does the invoice
have the customer field and
does that kinda matching just on that and
we don't care about the rest.
There can be more nuanced ways where
we're somewhere in the middle, where
maybe we don't care about everything,
but we care about some things, right?
And for instance, to kind of that
half joke that I made earlier,
if you find yourself stubbing and
mocking your own code,
you probably should take a moment go for
a walk and think about it.
But places where that might be
the case which is if there's
any kind of random ID or
UUID generated, right,
either you have to choose to
not care about that, right,
that field, or, right,
you can mock it or stop it, right?
But there's a middle ground in the middle,
which is completely not caring or
not caring in a different
way by overriding it, right?
But okay, the property should be there and
it should be a string.
Could you do that by hand?
Does TypeScript help?
Absolutely, but
I think I'm always shocked and
maybe you all are smarter, so
maybe you've all seen this before, but
I'm always shocked to see how many
people don't know about this.
So it feels worthy to include
is this idea of what we
call asymmetric matching, right?
And asymmetric matching,
if we actually look in the docs here,
we can kinda see it towards the bottom
which are these ones here which is
they're not necessarily
after you have the value.
But they are like, expect anything
which is there should be a value.
Any is a given type here,
let's click on that one, which is cool.
Yeah, generate ID could be a unique value,
it could be random,
it could be different every time,
so good luck testing that.
But if you wanna make sure that we get
an object where the property has an ID and
the value is,
as long as it's a number, I'm good.
That way you don't have to mock it out.
You don't have to do a whole
set of weird expectations.
You're saying, hey,
I'm expecting an object that has an ID and
any number, right?
I don't care, it should be a number.
And then maybe you'd have
the rest of the property.
So it's like really maybe it's a person,
and you care about the first name and
the last name are what you put in,
but that ID is randomly generated, and
you don't want that breaking your tests,
and you do wanna make sure it's a number.
Could you write this with
enough expectations of,
expect first name to be blah,
expect last name to be blah,
blah, expect type of ID to be number?
Could you do this, but this is a lot
easier, to just define those properties
and have an object the way
you thought it should be?
And it's got some friends,
which is object containing,
which is cool, we wanna have an array,
and for instance,
there should be an object
that contains name.
This is kind of that partial matching that
you were asking before with toMatchObject.
There's ways to do this,
it definitely should be an array.
It definitely should have an object, one
object in it, and that object should just
contain this property,
I don't care about the rest, right?
And it lets you kind of be very specific
about the things you care about without
one, getting to this tedious, cuz yeah,
writing this test is not
providing you a lot of value.
You know what you're gonna do?
You're not gonna write it at all, right?
Or if it's flaky,
you're gonna delete it, right?
And so, sometimes it's about
getting very specific and
very clear on what exactly you care
about and what gives you the confidence.
When we talk about code coverage, for
instance, I don't care about the number.
It's like, do you feel weird
when you have to change this?
If you wanted to bump a dependency or
package json, do you feel comfortable?
That's what we're going for rather than
100% code coverage, you get a trophy.
And so, writing your tests where it's
cool, it is checking everything I care and
it's not getting flaky and it's not
getting weird about the stuff I don't care
about, and I'm keeping the test, provides
more value than either not having the test
cuz you're gonna get tired, right?
There's a human nature aspect here.
So how do we balance that with reality and
begin to deal with it?
Cool, let's just glance at
the asymmetric stuff one more time and
make sure I didn't miss anything cuz
with the really great questions,
we kind of off roaded it for a little bit.
So let's just kinda look
at these real quick.
This is an anti-pattern.
This one passes,
even though it should fail, right?
It passes before it fails,
you know what I mean?
We run through the function.
This is put on the event loop a second
later, but the function's already done,
we've moved on with our lives when
this expectation fails, right?
So that when we could have
a promise that resolves,
we could fake time even
later on we'll see.
There's a whole bunch of
ways to deal with this.
But know that this is a really great
way to make this test fail and
then see if at least the error message
roughly looks legit to you, right?
Another way to do it is to make sure that
there were assertions at some point or
another.
In this case, this will pass cuz we got
zero assertions, right, and you go, cool.
And this one will purposely fail
cuz it doesn't have any assertions.
So in this case, if it is a callback, you
can wrap it in a promise that resolves or
there's various things that
you can do in this case.
There's a way in if I test and
jest to basically move time forward
until all scheduled timers are done,
that would also do the trick.
We'll see that a little bit later,
the second half of this, but
just to be aware of that, again,
you should treat your passing tests with
a certain amount of suspicion if you
have a weird feeling in your stomach
that it shouldn't have passed.
There's nothing worse than the like,
it worked, and you don't know why.
It's worse than it breaking and
you don't know why.
Cool, but yeah, generally speaking if you
live in a promise based world like I do,
you can either just await it or
use resolves.
I don't have to deal with that many
call backs in my life anymore.
The modern era, like I said, is wonderful.